Welcome back.
In this video we're going to discuss an important concept in object oriented programming in which we
pass methods and properties from one class to another.
This is known as inheritance even though javascript is not an object oriented language.
We can mimic inheritance with objects and functions just like we do with our constructor functions.
Remember inheritance is the process of passing methods and properties from one class to another in javascript.
We do not have classes built into the language.
So what exactly do we pass from one constructor function to another when doing inheritance with javascript.
We don't actually pass one constructor to another.
We passed the prototype property of one constructor to another constructor.
The idea here is that since the prototype property is where all of our properties and methods live we
need to have another constructor function.
Get all those properties.
You might be wondering why we do this.
So let's take a look at a small example.
Here we have two constructor functions person and student and we can see that our constructor function
is using apply to reduce duplication at the student.
That prototype object has a method called Say hi which looks just like the method we implemented on
the person prototype.
Is there any way we can copy over that function.
The first idea that might come to mind is let's assign the prototype property of one object to be another's
so we can assign students that prototype to be person that prototype.
Now we can create an object from the student constructor and invoke the say hi method and it works well.
Not exactly.
Let's add something onto the student that prototype object.
If we implemented this correctly our Person objects should not be able to be modified from the student
constructor function.
Remember we want a student to inherit from person.
So if we did this correctly the inheritance should only affect the student.
Now let's create a new object from the person constructor and see if it has a status method which it
should not.
Status is just something that belongs to the student prototype.
Something isn't right here.
The person prototype should not have properties from the student prototype.
The problem here is that we can't just assign one object to another.
It will just create a reference.
Let's see what we mean by that with a simple example.
If you're confused I'm going to create an object called 0 and give it a name property and a value of
L.E. then create another object 0 2 and assign it to.
If I change the name property on 0 2 to 10 and then examine the name property on 0.
It has also been changed as well.
That's because when we assign one object to another we do not create a brand new object we just create
a reference or a link to an existing object.
In our case this means that if we change the student prototype it will also affect the person prototype
we still want all of the methods and properties from the person prototype.
What we do not want to reference.
So how can we fix this.
The answer is Object.
Create a function that creates a brand new object and accepts as its first parameter what the Dunder
Prato should be.
For that newly created object this is exactly what we need.
Let's see how it works.
We can see here that our student prototype is being assigned to a new object with a donder Prato of
person that prototype.
Now let's add a function on the student prototype to see if it does not affect the person prototype.
And then let's create a person object and we can see that the student prototype does not affect the
person prototype anymore.
Now you might be wondering why are we using objects that create and not the new keyword.
Since the new keyword sets with the prototype object should be.
Although it does the same thing as object or create it will add unnecessary properties on the prototype
object.
So in doing inheritance through the prototype which is commonly called prototype will inheritance use
objects create another way of pass along methods and properties from one prototype object to another.
There is one final piece to completing inheritance.
Remember that every prototype object has a property on it called constructor which points back to the
constructor function.
If we take a look at the constructor property on student prototype you'll actually see that it is the
person constructor.
That's because when we did object create we overwrote the constructor property.
So we need to make sure to set it back to the correct value.
We call this resetting the constructor and it is the final part of prototype inheritance.
To do that we simply assign student that prototype that constructor to be the student function.
To recap there are two parts to prototype inheritance.
Setting the prototype property to be a newly created object and resetting the constructor property.
This concept is a bit tricky to wrap your head around so if you're still not feeling too confident try
these examples in the chrome console to see exactly how everything is happening in the next video.
We'll review what we've learned in this section.
First it's time for you to practice with inheritance.
Good luck.